Documentation for your project in the form of a Markdown file called README.md. This documentation is to be a user’s manual for your project. Though the structure of your documentation is entirely up to you, it should be incredibly clear to the staff how and where, if applicable, to compile, configure, and use your project. Your documentation should be at least several paragraphs in length. It should not be necessary for us to contact you with questions regarding your project after its submission. Hold our hand with this documentation; be sure to answer in your documentation any questions that you think we might have while testing your work.

About:
Time Journal is a web application that serves as both an everyday journal and time management tool. Users can log their activities as their day progresses, noting down their emotions and review of the activity as well as when they completed the activity. The algorithm saves all of these activities so that the user can then view all of the activities they've recorded for a given day at any later point. Furthermore, the algorithm analyzes the user's recorded activities to create a summary of how the user allocated their time for a given day and then provides the user with suggestions on how they could potentially better spend their time to lead a healthier and happier life.

* Please note that when you are logged in, you will have a different navigation bar than when you are logged out. When you are logged in, "Time Journal" will direct to your journal records, whereas when you are logged out, "Time Journal" will direct to a homepage with a simple "About." Additionally, you are only able to add activities to your Time Journal when you are logged in.

To test the web application:
1) Register as a user and login to your account.
In the top right corner of the page, click on "Register." When the registration form appears, complete all of the fields and hit the "Register" button. When redirected to the "Login" page, input your username and password and hit "Login." You should be redirected your Time Journal, which currently should have no fields.

2) Add an activity.
In the top left corner, click on "Add Entry." Complete the form. In the first field, with a placeholder "Activity," type in the activity name (e.g. CS50 Final Project). Next, for "Start time," put in the time you started the activity (e.g. 10:30 AM). For "End time," put in the time you finished the activity (e.g. 12:30 PM). For "Date," input the date you completed the activity. To easily select a date, hover over the right side of the input field and click on the downwards arrow to get a calendar view. Then choose the activity's category from the dropdown list. Next, rate the activity: select "Liked" if you enjoyed the activity, "Neutral" if it was neither good nor bad, or "Disliked" if you did not enjoy the activity. Lastly, add any notes that may help you remember what you accomplished during the activity or expand on your thoughts after completing the activity. This "Notes" field is optional, however all of the other fields are required in order to log the activity. Click on "Add," and if all fields are completed correctly, you should be redirected to Time Journal.

3) View the activities you completed on a given day.
If you are not on the Time Journal page already, click "Time Journal" on the top left corner of the screen. It will automatically display the Time Journal for the current day. If you do not have any entries for today, you will be shown a page that states the date and a message that reads "No entries to display." followed by a link to "Add an Entry." If you have entries recorded for today, you will be shown a page that states today's date followed by a table that displays the activities that you did today. The table is automatically sorted by the start time of the activity, but you have the option of sorting it by any of the table columns ("Activity," "Category," "Time Spent," or "Notes"). Simply hover over the column headers and click on the arrow on the right side of the column to sort by that column. You can sort by ascending or descending order. If you want to see the activities you completed on another day and not today, just go to the top of the page and see the date input field? You can hover over that field and click the arrow on the right to get a calendar display, then select the date you want to view your Time Journal for.

4) View a summary of how you spent your time on a given day.
If you are on the "Time Journal" page and you have entries for the day you selected, under the table of recorded activities, you should see a button that says "Show Summary." Click on "Show Summary" and a pie chart followed by a table should appear, which break down how many hours you spent doing activities in each category (e.g. "Food," "Schoolwork," "Sleep"). You can also click "Hide Summary" if you no longer want to view the summary; this will collapse the pie chart and table so it is no longer displayed. Please note that if you do not have any entries for a day, you will not be given the "Show Summary" button when you are on the Time Journal page.

5) See the advice the algorithm gives you based on your activities.
If you are on the "Time Journal" page and you have entries for the day you selected, under the table of recorded activities and under the "Show Summary" button, there is another button "Show Advice." Click on "Show Advice" and a slideshow containing pieces of advice will be displayed. Click the right arrow on the right side of the slideshow to go to the next piece of advice, and click the left arrow on the left side of the slideshow to go back to the previous piece of advice. The advice given is based on how you allocated your time across the activity categories for that given day. You can also click "Hide Advice" if you no longer want to view the slideshow of advice; this will collapse the slideshow so it is no longer displayed. Please note that if you do not have any entries for a day, you will not be given the "Show Advice" button when you are on the Time Journal page.

6) Log out.
To log out of your account, just click "Log Out" on the top right of the page.
